[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As cryptocurrencies like
Bitcoin break new records
seemingly every day, could
this lead to a financial
and Cultural Revolution?
Or are we not quite there yet?
This is Gaia News.
Cryptocurrencies
have recently gained
popularity as an alternative to
conventional monetary systems.
Blockchain is a system in
which a record of transactions
made in Bitcoin or
another cryptocurrency
are maintained across several
computers that are linked
in a peer-to-peer network.
Crypto has no centralized bank
controlling the flow of money,
but rather a
decentralized system
controlled by algorithms.
Crypto has been hailed
as a way to democratize
finances for all, not
just for wealthy elites.
But with the rise
in popularity, what
are the potential pitfalls
of these online currencies?
Zeus Yiamouyiannis, author
of "Transforming Economy
From Corrupted Capitalism
To Connected Communities"
has been studying cryptocurrency
and how we use it for years.
So how does it work?
>> The impulse to develop this
money started with the desire
to decentralize money,
management, and supply.
Blockchain is a way of digitally
sort of marking the development
and moving around
with this money
and making sure that it
can't be counterfeited.
They do it in such a
way that it's anonymous,
it's decentralized, but secure.
>> Why crypto?
Why change the current
monetary system?
>> The current monetary
system can be manipulated.
The supply can manipulated
to benefit very few people
over the many.
As we've been seeing in
the past few decades,
the same pattern keeps
emerging and it's growing.
And that is greater
and greater gambling
by the big boys to the
point where they inherently
fail through their greed.
And guess who bails them
out 100% of the time?
The little guy who
had absolutely nothing
to do with it.
When that market crashed
in March of this year,
the top billionaires in
the world gained a trillion
from the rebound of the market.
So what we're seeing here is how
through political and economic
entanglement and
internationalism,
money supplies are being
manipulated by the very top.
>> How does an online currency
democratize money and society?
>> I mean, the interesting thing
about cryptocurrency is that it
exists in sort of the three
traditional ways that we have
understanding wealth.
First, is historic wealth like
gold, an actual commodity.
The second is an
exchange medium.
And the final thing is the
democratization, I think,
of value.
That's why cryptocurrency
is interesting
and it's not open
to manipulation
in the typical ways.
So it has the
potential for being
very much a democratically
supported monetary system that
is secure.
>> What does the future hold for
crypto now that institutional
investors are getting
in on the craze?
>> In terms of institutional
investing in crypto,
it's a mixed bag.
Now, one of the biggest
hedge fund traders
out there made a substantial
multi-billion investment.
And he said-- and he said it
with the right mentality--
he said it's an
investment in the future
of the health of humanity.
And to this I
would say, I'd love
to see a new
cryptocurrency started
which has a maximum limit
of how much you can buy
and that is accessible
to everyone.
>> We've seen markets rise
and crash sometimes with
devastating effects.
The dotcom burst
in the early 2000s.
The housing market crash and
resulting bailouts in 2008.
With cryptocurrency
showing such volatility,
is this another bubble
waiting to burst?
>> There is a real problem
with bubbles right now in terms
of not only the ability of the
elite to gain access to this,
but also for the volatility.
As I said in another
forecast, it's
the humanity around
the money that's
more the problem than
the money itself.
But that very much is
part of the picture.
And we have to evolve
as human beings
to the point where
we go beyond greed
and beyond just simply
stores of wealth, and more
toward exchange and what I
call going from "thing" value,
a possession, to use
value, or experience
in exchange and community.
>> Cryptocurrencies have a lot
of hurdles to get over before
becoming the democratizing
force some envision.
But Zeus Yiamouyiannis
sees this as a way
to get out of our current
system of monetary manipulation.
>> Crypto fixes that
manipulation in one very
important way.
It cannot be
arbitrarily increased.
The money supply, you
can't just print money.
Getting them, again, another
leveraged unfair advantage.
You can't do that
with cryptocurrency.
>> Could cryptocurrency actually
help bring about a spiritual
awakening by ending the
elites' control over
the world's finances?
Could we move to a
more equitable society
based on mutual trust
and understanding instead
of greed and self-service?
We will see what happens.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.